## Disclosure Requirement S4-1 – Policies related to consumers and end-users

13. The undertaking shall describe its policies adopted to manage its material impacts of its products and/or services on consumers and end-users, as well as associated material risks and opportunities.

14. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to enable an understanding of the extent to which the undertaking has policies that address the identification, assessment, management and/or remediation of material impacts on consumers and/or end-users specifically, as well as policies that cover material risks or opportunities related to consumers and/or end-users.

15. The disclosure required by paragraph 13 shall contain the information on the undertaking’s policies to manage its material impacts, risks and opportunities related to consumers and/or end-users in accordance with ESRS 2 MDR-P Policies adopted to manage material sustainability matters. In addition, the undertaking shall specify if such policies cover specific groups or all consumers and/or end-users.

16. The undertaking shall describe its human rights policy commitments (116) that are relevant to consumers and/or end-users, including those processes and mechanisms to monitor compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In its disclosure it shall focus on those matters that are material, as well as the general approach in relation to (117):
	- (a) respect for the human rights of consumers and/or end-users;
	- (b) engagement with consumers and/or end-users;
	- (c) measures to provide and/or enable remedy for human rights impacts.

17. The undertaking shall disclose whether and how its policies with regard to consumers and/or end-users are aligned with internationally recognised instruments relevant to consumers and/or end-users, including United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The undertaking shall also disclose the extent to which cases of non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work or OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that involve consumers and/or end-users have been reported in its downstream value chain and, if applicable, an indication of the nature of such cases. (118).

---

(116) This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from an additional indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #9 in Table III of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Lack of a human rights policy”). 

(117) This information supports the information needs of financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #11 in Table I of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (’Lack of processes and compliance mechanisms to monitor compliance with UN Global Compact principles and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises’).

(118) This information supports the information needs of: financial market participants subject to Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 because it is derived from a mandatory indicator related to principal adverse impacts as set out by indicator #10 in Table I of Annex I of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/1288 with regard to disclosure rules on sustainable investments (“Violations of UN Global Compact principles and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises”); and benchmark administrators to disclose ESG factors subject to Regulation (EU) 2020/1816 as set out by indicator “Number of benchmark constituents subject to social violations (absolute number and relative divided by all benchmark constituents), as referred to in international treaties and conventions, United Nations principles and, where applicable, national law” in section 1 and 2 of Annex II. 
